when you're in the bad especially when
you're young you know redevelop
self-esteem you know by the age of seven
if you're if you're not good by the age
of seven or eight years old you have a
good chance of being the rest of your
life so if you're parents or or you came
up wrong and then seven or eight if you
don't have the self-esteem but you fuing
grind you're like I want to be better
when you get to where where I got or or
where I
am it's almost like you can't believe
the journey like I talked about in that
VFW in the first chapter of that book
man I'm sitting in that audience all
those people now I'm about to get the
you know americanism award and I was
grinding so hard I never took time to
reflect in my life and this was like
time to reflect and I was all kind of up
I got on stage man just cried for like
59 seconds and it was such an emotional
moment for me that iing that I did what
I did and I I overcame and it was
it was alone man you know a lot of
people have like teammates
anding like you know family push my my
mom was struggling bro she was strugg so
it was like me and my mom and so it's a
lot of just me so when you're waking up
every morning by yourself and you're
fing getting after by yourself and and
it's the it's the hidden work people see
a one minute you know video of me
running like like these Fighters you
know they they see him during the fight
or after the fight they don't see these
man what they deal with
every fing day I'm not good enough I'm
not good enough I shouldn't be here I
shouldn't be here because every day
they're even though they're fuing the
best in the world that little
at seven or eight years old
is still in there saying oh man we we
don't have so we're not good enough
we're not we shouldn't be here so you're
always fighting that even
though you beat it you never truly beat
it so when they get on stage and talking
to Joe Rogan it's it's not even real
it's not even real all those Ms that you
didn't want to get up and and I look at
it as like
aing like a rock and you find this rock
and that rock is you and every day
youing fight not wanting to get up and
you do anyway you chip another piece off
that fing Rock and every day youing eat
the right foods and every day you go to
train you train harder and harder and
harder and harder and you get up earlier
and all these things you do to start
forming yourself you're chipping
anothering piece of that rock up me
before you know it you have this
beautiful piece of artwork that that you
built but people don't and then once you
get there you see it and it becomes real
like oh my goding did this and so like
the Journey becomes so real then
but so many people aren't willing to
chip away at that stone that is
them to start chipping off those rough
edges when I was a seal recruiter I got
invited to MIT smart ass 
there man I'm not that I'm this a
garanimal I'm a knuckle dragger there
was this guy there I forget his name but
he was like the top head head guy guy
old white guy you know all all genius
out and we were on this panel and they
were asking us all these questions about
the Mind mental toughness and Sh he was
answering them and I wasn't answering
any questions and I'll never forget he
was just answering them off of theory he
never put his fing ass in you read a
bunch of books and you think that you
know how the mind works and I
had gone through hell since a kid and
then all the way up until now so I
know so that theory is yeah
there's a lot of good stuff out there
you can read from people but I had lived
hell and when you put yourself in hell
that's the only time you can figure out
how to to get through that mother you
can't read somebody else's book about
some theory on how to do some guy who
sat up in a nice warm office and read
and wrote some book with a nice cup of
coffee in theing hand no I want to see
that guy who immersed himself in 
hell and he thought about quitting and
leaving and and his wife and his kids
and why am I here is this is it worth it
all this crazy is still said and found
out a way to get through it so basically
that's that's the bottom line of it all
we all want to read about how we can
quickly get somewhere that's why there
six minute abs and all sort so
powerful did you may get some results
from it but they're not permanent the
permanent result comes from youing I say
it all the time you have to
suffer you have to make that a tattoo on
your brain so when that hard
time comes again you don't forget it you
may forget it for a second but you can
go back in the cookie jar I call it it's
a it's something that we've all endured
I call it the cookie jar and we often
forget how hard we are but you got to
reflect back take a couple seconds
reflect I've been through this I've been
through that and then remind yourself
I'm a bad
and then you get through
that but if you don't believe it you
haven't
endured you're just blowing smoke man
and you're not going be get through
anything we all have a cookie jar inside
us because life being what it is has
always tested us even if you're feeling
low and beat down by life right now I
guarantee you can think of a time or two
when you overcame odds and tasted
success it doesn't have to be a big
victory either it can be something
small I know we all want the whole
Victory today but when I was teaching
myself to
read I would be happy when I could
understand every word in a single
paragraph I knew I still had a long way
to go to move from a third grade reading
level to that of a senior in high school
but even a small win like that was
enough to keep me
interested in learning and finding more
Within Myself you don't drop 100 lb in
less than 3 months without losing 5 lbs
in a week first those first 5 lbs I lost
were a small accomplishment and it
doesn't sound like a lot but at the time
it was proof that I could lose weight
and that my goal however improbable was
not impossible the engine in a rocket
ship does not fire without a small spark
first we all need small Sparks small
accomplishments in our lives to fuel the
big ones think of your small
accomplishments as kindling when you
want a bonfire you don't start by
lighting a big log
you collect some witch's hair a small
pile of hay or some dry dead grass you
light that and then add small sticks and
bigger sticks before you feed your tree
stump into the blaze because it's the
small Sparks which start small fires
that eventually build enough heat to
burn the whole Forest down if you don't
have any big accomplishments to draw on
yet so be it your small victories are
your cookies to savor and make sure you
do Savor them yeah I was hard on myself
when I looked in the accountability
mirror but I also praised myself
whenever I could claim a small victory
because we all need that and very few of
us take the time to celebrate our
successes sure in the moment we might
enjoy them but do we ever look back on
them and feel that win again and again
maybe that sounds narcissistic to
you but I'm not talking about droning on
and bullshitting about the Glory Days
here I'm not suggesting you crawl up
your own ass and bore your friends with
all your stories about what a badass you
used to be nobody wants to hear that I'm
talking about utilizing past successes
to fuel you to new and bigger ones
because In the Heat of battle when gets
real we need to draw inspiration to push
through our own exhaustion depression
pain and misery we need to spark a bunch
of small fires to become the mothering
Inferno but digging into the cookie jar
when things are going south takes focus
and determination because at first the
brain doesn't want to go there it wants
to remind you that you're suffering U
Ing and that your goal is impossible it
wants to stop you so it can stop the
pain that night in San Diego was the
most difficult night of my life
physically I'd never felt so broken and
there were no souls to take I wasn't
competing for a
trophy there was no one standing in my
way all I had to draw on to keep myself
going was me the cookie jar became my
energy
Bank whenever the pain got to be too
much I dug into it and took a bite the
pain was never gone but I only felt it
in waves because my brain was otherwise
occupied which allowed me to drown out
the simple questions and Shrink time
each lap became a Victory lap
celebrating a different cookie another
small fire mile 881 became 82 and an
hour and a half later I was in the '90s
I'd run 9 fing miles with no training
who does that an hour later I was
at 95 and after nearly 19 hours of
running almost non-stop I'd done it I'd
hit 100 miles or had I I couldn't
remember so I ran one more lap just to
make sure whether you are running on a
treadmill or doing a set of push-ups get
to the point where you are so tired and
in pain that your mind is begging you to
stop then push just 5 to 10% further if
the most push-ups you have ever done is
100 in a workout do 105 or 110 if you
normally run 30 Mi each week run 10%
more next week this gradual ramp up will
help prevent injury and allow your body
and mind to slowly adapt to your new
workload it also resets your Baseline
which is important because you're about
to increase your workload another 5 to
10% the following week and the week
after that there is so much pain and
suffering involved in physical
challenges that it's the best training
to take command of your inner dialogue
and the Newfound mental strength and
confidence you gain by continuing to
push yourself physically will carry over
to other aspects in your
life you will realize that if you were
underperforming in your physical
challenges there's a good chance you are
underperforming at school and work too
the bottom line is that life is one big
mind game the only person you're playing
against is yourself stick with this
process and soon what you thought was
impossible will be something you do
everying day of your life
